---
tag: ["Pen Testing with Kali"]
title: Journey Through PWK - 4 - Buffer Overflow
---
# Journey through PWK – Buffer Overflow

It has been a while. Life circumstances, fortunately they were good events,
led to a significant lack of time and attention on PWK work which means I am
likely going to end up needing some more lab time to get everything done. I
have been working my way through buffer overflows in windows and linux. I wanted
to share my very basic methodology with you all and hopefully it will prove to be helpful.

My lessons learned so far are always…always look to see if you have accidentally
added or removed a space from a proof of concept because something that I
thought would be so small has been the source of some major headaches. I have a
lot to learn in this area and will likely be spending a lot more time doing
buffer overflow exercises before taking the OSCP exam.

I am still very much learning buffer overflow and the techniques used to find places to execute code inside an existing program. At the moment this is my current methodology and steps used for analyzing a buffer overflow and inserting shellcode. As always, please provide feedback and constructive criticism.

# Ask Questions
1.	What is the application?
2.	What version is the application?
3.	Windows or Linux?
4.	What architecture is it running on?
5.	Are there known buffer overflow vulns?
  * a.	Is there a proof of concept to build on?
6.	What protocol does application communicate on?
7.	Are there options for user input or places that will process user input?

### Fuzz
1.	Create a script to fuzz the application.
  * a.	Increment buffer size by 200 to start.
2.	Launch the application, attach debugger, click the play icon to run the application, and launch fuzzer.
3.	Make note of the buffer size at crash.
4.	Make note of the values for the ESP and EIP
  * a.	ESP: note the memory address of the ESP register
  * b.	EIP: note is the EIP has content from the fuzzer
5.	Create a skeleton exploit with the appropriate buffer size.
  * a.	For example, if during fuzzing the program crashes at 2800 characters then create a script that always products 2800 As rather than incrementing fuzzing script.
  * b.	There may be trial and error in the process to identify the exact place the overflow occurs.
6.	Ensure this works.

### Control the EIP
1.	To do this we must find where in the buffer overwrites the EIP.
2.	Generate a unique string of the appropriate size. The pattern_create.rb script that comes on Kali is a useful tool for this.
3.	Copy the unique string and place it into the script to be used at the buffer
4.	Launch the application, attach debugger, run the application, and launch the script.
5.	Make note of the values for the ESP and EIP
  * a.	ESP: note the memory address of the ESP register
  * b.	EIP: note is the EIP has content from the fuzzer
6.	Determine the hex to ASCII for the unique string
  * a.	May or may not be useful later on.
7.	Use pattern_offset.rb to find the exact location of the bytes found in EIP.
8.	Make note of the number
9.	Adjust exploit script to send A=offset, B=EIP size(4), and C=rest of the buffer size.
  * a.	For example, If the overflow happened at 2800 charecters, the offset was 63, and EIP size was 4 then the script would need to look something like “A”*63+"B"*4+(2800-63-4)
10.	Execute the script and ensure the Bs are in the EIP
11.	Make note of EIP and ESP

### Find a Location for Injection of Shellcode
1.	Follow the ESP register and examine the memory
2.	Determine if there is enough space for shellcode. Shell code requires 350-400bytes of space
* If there is not enough space for shellcode attempt to create a larger buffer in memory by sending a larger buffer.
* Increase the number of Cs by 350
*	Execute
*	Examine if there is enough space for shell code and ensure the EIP is still overwritten by Bs.
	If not go to Step 3
*	Make note of the EIP and ESP
3.	Attempt to create First Stage Shell Code
4.	Examine the ESP register and determine if it is possible to write to the location it is pointing to.
5.	Determine how much space is available to write to
6.	Using the available space create first stage shell code
7.	Attempt to determine how much space is available
8.	Determine which commands will be needed to jump to a place in memory that will allow for execute of your code.
9.	Determine commands needed and translate those to hex
o	nasm_shell.rb is a helpful tool for this
10.	Add the first stage shell code to your exploit
11.	Move to finding bad chars.

### Determine bad characters
Always assume null byte opp code = x/00 is bad
1.	Insert a bad characters string into the exploit script ranging from \x00 to \xff
* a.	badchars = (
"\x01\x02\x03\x04\x05\x06\x07\x08\x09\x0a\x0b\x0c\x0d\x0e\x0f\x10"
"\x11\x12\x13\x14\x15\x16\x17\x18\x19\x1a\x1b\x1c\x1d\x1e\x1f\x20"
"\x21\x22\x23\x24\x25\x26\x27\x28\x29\x2a\x2b\x2c\x2d\x2e\x2f\x30"
"\x31\x32\x33\x34\x35\x36\x37\x38\x39\x3a\x3b\x3c\x3d\x3e\x3f\x40"
"\x41\x42\x43\x44\x45\x46\x47\x48\x49\x4a\x4b\x4c\x4d\x4e\x4f\x50"
"\x51\x52\x53\x54\x55\x56\x57\x58\x59\x5a\x5b\x5c\x5d\x5e\x5f\x60"
"\x61\x62\x63\x64\x65\x66\x67\x68\x69\x6a\x6b\x6c\x6d\x6e\x6f\x70"
"\x71\x72\x73\x74\x75\x76\x77\x78\x79\x7a\x7b\x7c\x7d\x7e\x7f\x80"
"\x81\x82\x83\x84\x85\x86\x87\x88\x89\x8a\x8b\x8c\x8d\x8e\x8f\x90"
"\x91\x92\x93\x94\x95\x96\x97\x98\x99\x9a\x9b\x9c\x9d\x9e\x9f\xa0"
"\xa1\xa2\xa3\xa4\xa5\xa6\xa7\xa8\xa9\xaa\xab\xac\xad\xae\xaf\xb0"
"\xb1\xb2\xb3\xb4\xb5\xb6\xb7\xb8\xb9\xba\xbb\xbc\xbd\xbe\xbf\xc0"
"\xc1\xc2\xc3\xc4\xc5\xc6\xc7\xc8\xc9\xca\xcb\xcc\xcd\xce\xcf\xd0"
"\xd1\xd2\xd3\xd4\xd5\xd6\xd7\xd8\xd9\xda\xdb\xdc\xdd\xde\xdf\xe0"
"\xe1\xe2\xe3\xe4\xe5\xe6\xe7\xe8\xe9\xea\xeb\xec\xed\xee\xef\xf0"
"\xf1\xf2\xf3\xf4\xf5\xf6\xf7\xf8\xf9\xfa\xfb\xfc\xfd\xfe\xff" )

2) Adjust script to send bad characters following As and Bs
3) Execute
4) Follow ESP dump to find truncation
5) Note the character that causes an issue and remove it from the script.
6) Repeat this process until there are no bad characters

### Redirect Exaction Flow to Shellcode -
The goal is to find a way to redirect the execution flow at the time of crash to the shellcode located at the memory address the ESP register is point to at crash time. If possible have the EIP point to the ESP address that occurs when there is a crash. This will only work if the ESP does not change each time the program is run.
1.	Find an accessible, reliable address in memory that contains an instruction such as JMP ESP
2.	Search for JMP ESP or push ESP return
3.	Locate one that the memory address does not have any bad characters
4.	Make note of the address
5.	Search for the address to very it is a JMP ESP
6.	Adjust exploit script to replace Bs with the memory address that was noted in little endian format.
* a.	For example, A1N2C3D4 would be \xD4\xC3\xB2\xA1
Generate ShellCode
1.	Utilize msfvenom to create the appropriate payload
* a.	If the process it multithreaded ensure to include the EXITFUNC=thread option to the command
Make note of the size of the shellcode once it is generated
2.	Add shell code payload to script
3.	Add a few NOOPs after the EIP and prior to the shellcode
4.	Set up a netcat listener to catch the shell
