---
tag: ["Pen Testing with Kali"]
title: Journey Through PWK - 3 - Take Care of Yourself
---
# Journey through PWK – Take Care of yourself

This week we are going to talk about two things.

First, enumeration. Port scans are just the beginning of network enumeration
because they essentially tell you where you can gather more information about a
target. So once you have finished running port scans and getting to know your
host start asking it some more propping questions using nmap scripts or other
enumeration tools like enum4linux for SMB, smtp-user-enum for SMTP, and
onesixtyone for SMTP. These tools will aid in getting information about a target
but also might expose vulnerabilities that can later be exploited.

Second, take care of yourself. I found myself getting frustrated with some
failures I was facing during exercises and trying to automate some tasks using
Python. I was not making as much progress as I thought I should be and I
realized it was time to take a break. So I took some time over the weekend to
do some of the things I love outside of information security. I was able to
unwind, recharge, and come back better than if I had just spent the entire
weekend slogging through course content. We are human and we need rest and
breaks to stay at our best. So while trying harder is important it is also
important to make sure you can try at all.

Sorry for the short post but seeing as I took a short hiatus from course
material, I do not have much for you all this time around.
